Oh beaver the family that lives here in
this lake at the foot of the Teton
Mountains in Wyoming
while beavers can get around perfectly
well on land they're most at home in the
water where their webbed hind feet at
large Pavelec tail make them powerful
swimmers above and below the surface
like marmots beavers feed on all kinds
of vegetation and eat wood as well as
leaves and they're accomplished
engineer's this great pond is entirely
at their own creation only a few years
ago this shallow pebble is stream flowed
straight down the valley then a family
of beavers moved in and built a dam the
main body of it is built of boulders on
the downstream side it's been lined with
logs some of them big and quite heavy
and on this side it's been packed with
mud and vegetation it's been built so
accurately that it is to within a few
inches horizontal across its entire
length of about 150 yards from one side
to the other and the lake it created
stretches upstream for almost a mile
so important is their damn to them that
if they detect the slightest leak
usually by hearing the sound of
trickling water they start repair work
immediately mud is needed as well as
logs the repair team will labor away
until the leak is fully repaired
maintaining water at a high level brings
beavers several advantages one of which
is that it floods the surrounding
woodland and so enables them to swim in
safety to their main source of food they
increase the distance they can swim by
digging channels that lead into the very
heart of the woodland
here they can use their sharp incisor
teeth to strip off the bark from a
fallen tree trunk and nibble at it while
still being close enough to water to
slip away should a bear or a mountain
lion turn up
their network of channels also enables
from Clefairy whole branches back to
their pond
and there where the water is deepest
they dive down and push each branch
firmly into the mud at the bottom this
is the beavers fridge where the
vegetation will keep fresh through the
long winter when the pond is covered
with ice
stocking the fridge takes a lot of work
and the beavers are at their busiest in
autumn
at one side of the lake Sam's there
Lodge
a fortress built of branches and
boulders that's so strong they're not
even a bear could break into it the only
entrance is through tunnels that open
underwater and the beavers take refuge
here whenever they are alarmed that was
a warning signal to say that danger was
around let's say me and now I may not
see the Beavers for some time they can
stay underwater for five minutes at a
time up to 15 if they need to they can
actually get back to the safety of their
Lodge without putting their head above
the surface for a single second most
lodges have at least two different
entrances by October winter is well
underway but whereas marmots would now
be hibernating the Beavers are still
active and will remain that way
throughout the winter even when the pond
ice is over completely they're still
able to swim under the ice to get back
and forth to their Lodge
no one knew exactly what went on inside
the lodge during winter so when the
Beavers were away we installed a couple
of infrared cameras in order to find out
a branch from the fridge is being
brought back to the lodge for the whole
family to feed on
and another no wonder they don't need to
hibernate with this ingenious setup the
lodge is warm and safe even in midwinter
and the only sign of activity in the
snug home beneath the snow is hot air
rising from the vent at the top
inside our cameras catch a glimpse of
what at first sight looks like a very
small beaver
it's a muskrat they're a pair of them in
here this is a new observation to the
Beavers actually no in the pitch
blackness that there are strangers among
them we noticed that the muskrats
regularly left the lodge to forage under
the unless and on several occasions they
returned a few minutes later with a load
of fresh reeds perhaps the muskrats are
paying rent by regularly providing fresh
bedding for the lodge
maybe that is why the Beavers accept
them and even allow them to share their
food
ah infrared lights are no longer welcome
it seems